---
layout: post
title:  "Montréal, the land of beautiful people"
date:   2022-08-31
---

![Place de Castlenau](/images/place-de-castlenau.jpg)

_Pictured: Place de Castlenau, a street in the Villeray neighborhood that,
you guessed it, is closed to private automobiles during the summer._

Whether or not it is merely the language barrier playing tricks, I cannot
help but be ensconced by the elegant, poised, and beautiful nature of
Montréalers. I experienced a similar feeling when I was living in München.
What is it that makes us Americans seem so generally crude by comparison?

And it warrants reiterating that my perception is a generalization. But
I can't help but notice that people here put in more effort to live _la
belle vie_ than most of us do in America. 

Most people's manner of dress is elegant—refined yet modest, impressive
but not flashy. There's a sense that people put effort into their
appearance, but not so much that they appear outlandish, as if they're
trying merely to draw attention to themselves. Nor, on the other end of
the spectrum, do they appear slovenly and unkempt.

As well, the city is generally clean and I imagine it's the result of
people caring enough to keep it that way. Compared to New York, I'd eat
off the floor of the Métro here.

That's not to say I haven't seen my share of ugly behavior since I've been
here. I saw a jerk in a BMW swerve around someone stopped in traffic and
nearly collide with an oncoming car, all so they could be stuck behind yet
another car. And I've noticed people on the street _will not_ smile back
at you—something that I'd grown accustomed to in Florida.

But overall, I feel so much more at home here than in America. The
cosmopolitan spirit of the city is inspiring and energizing. And quite
frankly, I feel like I fit in here. And for the parts of me that don't fit
(I'm looking at you, anglophone man), I feel catalyzed to grow.

Now if you'll excuse me, I have some serious people-watching to do. _Tant
de belles personnes!_
