---
layout: post
title:  "Summer's last hurrah, I hope"
date:   2022-09-11
--- 

![Marché Jean-Talon](/images/marche-jean-talon.jpg)

_Pictured: Marché Jean-Talon, a beautiful open-air year-round farmers'
market just a block away from my flat in Montréal._

When I first arrived in Montréal, I was greeted by an incredible reprieve
from the Florida heat. [Autumn was in the
air](/2022/09/07/as-the-leaves-turn.html) and I got to wear my favorite
sweater, a pair of boots, and a beanie. I _love_ autumn. I feel most at
home during the autumnal weather—when I can wear clothes that don't make
me feel like a scrub and the city turns inward. As a closeted introvert,
it's a celebration of afternoons spent sitting in cozy cafes and the
click-clack of my favorite boots on the sidewalk.

But this week, all of that changed as Montréal is experiencing another
heat wave. Yesterday, temperatures reached 85 degrees Fahrenheit. Today,
they're hovering around 83. 

And I've noticed in the past couple days that I'm more irritable than I'd
been in the weeks prior. I wake up in a great mood, but as soon as I walk
outside and I'm blinded by the late summer sun, all I want to do is go
back inside, close the blinds, and take a nap.

All of this is making me wonder how much longer I can stomach living in
Florida. Florida's winter is idyllic—from December to March, it's my
paradise. But the rest of the year it's a bit like living in a wet, slimy
oven.

The weather is supposed to turn on Tuesday, with rains bringing the
temperature down to a lovely 69 degrees Fahrenheit. My sweaters and
jackets and boots and socks are waiting anxiously, hoping this is the end
of their six-month hiatus from the street.

In the meantime, I've locked myself inside from the summer heat. I wanted
to go visit the
[_Basilique Notre-Dame de
Montréal_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Notre-Dame_Basilica_%28Montreal%29),
but the thought of walking back out into the heat makes me think next
weekend I'll enjoy it a bit more.

The positive aspect of all of this is that I've had a lot of time for
self-reflection and self-improvement. I've been committing to a daily
exercise regimen, I've been eating healthily, and I've been doing a lot of
therapeutic writing to help wipe away the cobwebs in my brain.

I also took a trip down to Vieux-Montréal (Old Montreal) to visit the
Montréal [John Fluevog](https://www.fluevog.com/) store, my favorite
bootmaker. They had a pair of burgundy Derby Swirls in my size, so
I splurged on a pair because they've always been my dream boots:

![Fluevog Derby Swirls](/images/derby-swirls.jpg)

I love them, but I could only wear them for an hour this morning until the
city turned into a sweaty inferno.

I'm trying not to be timid about doing some shopping and spending some
money while I'm here, since the exchange rate works splendidly in my favor
and Montréal's shopping options are near limitless! There's a denim store
called [Jeans Jeans Jeans](https://www.jeansjeansjeans.ca/) that
I overheard the locals talking about, so a new pair of jeans might be in
the cards, too.

Hope you all have a beautiful Sunday!
