---
layout: post
title:  "I don't want to go back"
date:   2022-09-01
---

![Cafe Ferlucci](/images/cafe-ferlucci.jpg)

_Pictured above: Cafe Ferlucci, a charming little cafe on Castlenau a few
blocks from my Montréal flat._

I woke up this morning in a bit of a panic. I'm not sure if I had a dream
or what happened, but I tossed and turned and couldn't fall back asleep.

I'm in love with Montréal, but I know I cannot stay.

It's not uncommon for me to fall in love with cities when I arrive, only
to find the love affair wear thin after a season or two. But here, the
love affair is a bit more practical. Montréal, to me, feels like the most
livable city in North America. 

There are myriad grocery stores within walking distance. The streetscape
is pleasant and inviting. The culture is elegant—not flashy, not overdone,
and not opulent (I'm looking at you, Florida). People ride bicycles to
work, down streets designed to accommodate them. There are very few large
pickup trucks, and when you see one, you laugh at how ridiculous they look
trying to navigate Montréal's crowded streets. You hardly ever see
Canadian flags on things, because people here evidently don't feel so
insecure about their country's standing so as to shove their nationalism
down your throat. (I'm looking at you, America).

To me, it is a more civil society. Now, this is all my impression from the
few square kilometers I've seen of Montréal. The rest of Canada, I'm sure,
is probably nearly as backwards as much of America. But here, life is
incredibly pleasant and rich. That the city is bilingual only adds to this
richness.

And I really don't want to go back to the States.

That's not to say I don't love America. It's a place that had a great run.
Some of the best art, music, and film was and is produced in America. If
you're an immigrant from a less affluent country, moving to America can be
an opportunity out of poverty. But compared to the rest of the developed
world, we've messed up, severely. We've prioritized the illusion of
individual self-determination—a tenuous illusion based on false
premises—over the development of the commonwealth. That has left us with
crumbling, inadequate infrastructure, housing that's built for the rich
few, ever-increasing healthcare costs, and a society of self-help gurus
and get-rich-quick schemes.

Again, that's not to say anywhere is perfect. Canada is certainly _not_
perfect. But in traveling, one can see where our deficits lie.

I've done a bit of research, and it would be quite the uphill battle to
immigrate to Québec. The most difficult part of the process, I imagine,
would be becoming fluent in French. But Québec is more strict with its
immigration policies than the rest of Canada. I feel fortunate that I have
a technical skillset that is in demand around the world, so I imagine if
I found a job and became fluent in French, I could make it happen.

For now, being that I still have an apartment in Florida, I'm going to
enjoy the winter in St Pete with the beautiful friends I've made there.
But something has been gnawing at me for years—that something just doesn't
feel right to me living in America anymore. Being here and feeling so much
more at ease is confirming that. Maybe the grass _is_ greener if you find
the right grass.


